>> Melkey: So we just finished confirming
that we now are able to create tokens for
our users,
we've seen these token we can use them.
And now let's take it one step further
into routing this with Middleware and
actually having proper authentication.
Cuz right now, we just get the token, but
it's really not doing much for us, right?
There's a lot of different ways that
we can use authentication tokens,
like making sure that the workout
belongs to the correct user.
And we're gonna explore this in
the next couple of submodules.
So, let's actually start this
off in our user_store.go file.
Cuz what we're going to be doing here
is we're gonna be adding a few things.
We're gonna be setting ourselves up for
our Middleware, okay?
So you can see we have our User
struct here, and this is great.
What I'm going to add
is var AnonymousUser.
And this is going to be simply
an empty user struck, okay?
Now, why would we need
something like this?
Well, if we think about it,
users who join our app, our web app,
whatever it is, they don't have to be
logged in the first time to use it, right?
When you before even register for account,
you are technically
considered an anonymous user.
So we are going to be leveraging this
ability of creating this variable,
which was going to be used as validation
in our Middleware to determine if
a user is a, anonymous, not logged in,
or if they are in fact logged in and
they are a full user with
the struct fills, okay?
So this is gonna set ourselves up.
I'm gonna add a new method here, so
func u, it's gonna be a method on user.
Okay, I'm gonna say IsAnonymous,
all right?
It's gonna return a boolean.
And all it's going to do is return u,
so compare it to an AnonymousUser.
So if the user is an empty user struck,
we know they are anonymous.
Else they are logged in.
We are anonymous.
And the next function we
wanna build here is we
want to also retrieve
who a token belongs to.
Cuz right now, if two of Jack Doe and
John Doe both create their tokens and
they submit a request with that token,
we need to identify who does that
token belong to and
what privileges does that token have.
And can they do things to certain workout
apps that, for example, if I create
a workout and I'm John Doe, I don't want
Jack Doe deleting it or doing stuff to it.
So I want to make sure
that my authorization
token is correctly adhered to,
and to do that,
we start by creating a new function
called GetUserToken, all right?
So take a scope, a tokenPlainText,
both of which are gonna be of type string.
And it's simply going to return a User and
an error.
So we get user token.
Did we implement it?
No, we did not.
Okay, let's go func.
So we're gonna implement
the GetUserFunction here,
we used s, so
we can do (s *PostgresTokenStore) like so,
okay, and then we do GetUserToken.
Okay, GetUserToken has to adhere to scope,
which would be a string,
and then plainTextPassword, also a string.
And then here it's gonna return
a pointer to User as well as an error.
Let's give ourselves more room.
Okay, and then here, what we're going to
do is retrieve the hash of the token.
I'm gonna try to compare it to
the color of this function.
So first, we'll do tokenHash is going
to be sha256, we'll bring it for you.
I'm gonna do sum256, and
it will be a slice of bytes like so.
Now put in the token,
the plaintextPassword like so.
>> Melkey: Oops.
>> Melkey: Then we can go ahead and
create our query.
Okay, so this query is gonna be the,
I would say, most advanced query we'll do.
I think it might be
the last query we'll do.
But this is going to be
actually an inner join.
So we're gonna be selecting
the values from our user table and
matching them with the values
from our token table, okay?
So we do an INNER JOIN based
on the ID of the token, so
the token user ID field as
well as the user id field.
Okay, so it's gonna be a little more
complicated than the ones we've seen
before, but
it's not gonna be too atrocious.
So here we can do SELECT.
We'll do u.id, and u is gonna be
representing of the user's table,
u.username, u.email, u.password_hash.
And these are values from our user table,
so
u.bio u.created_at,
u.updated_at, like, so.
FROM users u, so we're saying that the
users table, instead of writing user.id,
user.bio, we can just use
the shorthand notation of u.
And we can do INNER JOIN
tokens t ON t.user_id = u.id.
Okay, and we can say WHERE t.hash
= the first value passed in AND
t.scope = the second value we passed in.
And we have to check the expire, and
t.expiry > than the third value.
>> Melkey: And
that third value is gonna be time.now.
So I'm gonna compare it
to the current time.
I wanna execute this to the expiry of
something that's in our tokens table.
So here we can declare our new user.
So let's say User like so.
>> Melkey: We can do PasswordHash.
It's gonna be a password struck.
>> Melkey: Oops.
>> Melkey: Okay, and
then we can declare our error.
I'm gonna call this, so s.db.QueryRow,
I'm gonna pass in that query, and
then the three values we wanna pass in.
So first would be, let's copy the slice
of tokenHash like so, then the scope.
All right, and
then the last one will be time.Now.
And here, we'll do Scan.
I'm gonna scan the values, all right?
So the values that we're gonna
scan into are gonna be user.ID,
user.Username, user.Email,
user.PasswordHash.hash, user.Bio,
user.CreatedAt, and user.UpdatedAt.
Make sure add the comma.
If err is sql.ErrNoRows.
Okay, so if there just doesn't
happen to be any of the values and
return just the empty set,
we can just return nil and nil.
>> Melkey: Make sure this is a pointer.
>> Melkey: Okay,
if error does not equal to nil,
we can just return nil and
the error itself.
And then lastly, can return user and nil.